Senate leaders began negotiations Saturday aimed at reopening federal agencies and avoiding a government default after every other effort to end Congresss impasse crumbled in the previous 48 hours.

Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) took over the talks, which had led nowhere in recent days. House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) acknowledged early Saturday that his discussions with President Obama had collapsed and that the Senate was the last hope to avert a financial disaster.

Video
Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) addressed the shutdown during a press conference on Capitol Hill on Saturday, saying Susan Collins's plan to end the shutdown and extend the debt ceiling is "not going to go any place."
Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) addressed the shutdown during a press conference on Capitol Hill on Saturday, saying Susan Collins's plan to end the shutdown and extend the debt ceiling is "not going to go any place."
Read more:
Congressional GOP rushes to develop plan to end shutdown
Congressional GOP rushes to develop plan to end shutdown
Lori Montgomery and Paul Kane OCT 12
The latest draft proposal would end the shutdown and fund federal agencies for six months.
White House finds unlikely alliance in business community
White House finds unlikely alliance in business community
Jia Lynn Yang and Tom Hamburger OCT 12
Businesses want the government reopened, the debt ceiling raised and tea party candidates defeated.
Several iconic national parks reopen with state funding
Several iconic national parks reopen with state funding
Juliet Eilperin and Lenny Bernstein OCT 12
Hoping to save tourist season, states pay to open parks in Utah, Colorado, Arizona, New York and South Dakota.
Scenic parks slated to reopen
Russians given a glimpse of a democracy hardly at work
Russians given a glimpse of a democracy hardly at work
David A. Fahrenthold OCT 12
Program set up by Congress to show visitors how democracy works shows visitors a non-working Congress.
Bill Richardson negotiating lessons
Bill Richardson negotiating lessons
Bill Richardson OCT 12
Getting a deal, with dictators or Congress.
Sign up for he Showdown newsletter
Sign up for he Showdown newsletter
SEP 27
Get the latest news on the budget fight and a possible government shutdown in this daily newsletter.
McConnell and Reid held an hour-long meeting in Reids office with two close Senate allies and left the Capitol by mid-afternoon. Late Saturday night neither side cited any progress, and Republicans reported that Democrats were dug in on their demand to increase funding for federal agencies.

During the fiscal crises that have gripped Capitol Hill over the past five years, each resolution and compromise came after Senate leaders picked up the pieces of failed efforts between the White House and the House.

In the morning session, Reid rejected a proposal crafted by rank-and-file Republicans with some Democratic input to raise the federal debt limit until Jan. 31 and fund federal agencies through the end of March. It also called for minor adjustments to Obamas health-care law .

At an afternoon news conference, Reid said he wanted a shorter period for stopgap funding and a longer extension of the Treasury borrowing
authority. Reid particularly wants to scale back deep automatic spending cuts known as the sequester, which were passed during the 2011 debt-ceiling showdown and will take effect every January for the next decade, unless Congress amends them.

Sen. Richard J. Durbin (Ill.), the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, called that issue really the single biggest sticking point.
The slow-moving talks appeared to nix earlier hopes that at least an outline for a deal could be in place before the financial markets opened Monday, as some senior senators suggested when momentum seemed to be building toward a plan by Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine).

Senate Republicans already stunned by Boehner inability to pass anything in the House grew furious about Reid attempt to get relief from the sequester because they considered Collins plan the fastest path to a deal.

This thing has gotten to the point of a real crisis for the country, and everybody keeps changing their position based on politics, Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.) said after a long huddle on the Senate floor with McConnell and other Republicans.
